All studies talk about lay and experts collaboration, cre-claiming expertise, but GOSH is about giving tools for producing knowledge

GOSH is a facilitator platform, linking through openness and the tradition of social movements a new shape

GOSH es una plataforma donde conviven la tradición de movimientos sociales y la de apertura en la ciencia. Esto potencia el aspecto político de la apertura, dándole herramientas de organización y movilización del activismo, y como movimiento gana del lenguaje científico y de la 'innovación' a la que tiene acceso el open source. 

Una versión 2.0 de la tecnología apropiada en la era digital, en los framings: 
The legacy of the appropriate technology movement today is, in developing countries, one of low-tech, locally controlled development projects, and, in wealthy countries, advocacy around renewable energy and sustainable agriculture.

framing against this:
 In contrast, other groups, including representatives of traditional social
movements, developed a dystopian view of the computer, such as environmentalists
who saw them as sources of alienation (Hakken & Andrews, 1993; Kling & Iacono,
1988; Mander, 1984).

GOSH es una plataforma de learning via warm users:
*See McCracken (1988) for an exemplary study of the symbolic work involved in appropriating consumer technologies. For an exemplary study of the emotional and social work involved in domesticating the Internet, see Bakardjieva (2005). Bakardjieva has suggested that “warm experts,” a term she introduced to refer to people who are already familiar with the technology and are part of the user’s life world, such as close friends, are important to facilitate the domestication of the Internet. Warm experts act as “an intermediary between the world of technology and the new user’s personal world (Bakardjieva, 2005). Other studies of domestication include Frissen (2000), Katz and Rice (2002), Ropke (2003), Schroeder (2002), Slooten et al. (2003).*

Feminist sociologists suggest that the distribution of power among the multiple actors involved in sociotechnical networks should be approached as an empirical question 



Gurstein, Michael (ed) (2000) Community Informatics: Enabling Communities with Information and Communications Technologies (Hershey, PA: Idea Publishing Group).

Schuler, Doug (2000) “New Communities and New Community Networks,” in M. Gurstein (ed), Community Informatics: Enabling Communities with Information and Communications Technologies (London: Idea Publishing Group): 174–89.

Wajcman, Judy (1991) Feminism Confronts Technology (University Park: Pennsylvania State University Press).



